---
title: "Features"
description: ""
weight: 1
draft: false
---

The Verrazzano Enterprise Container Platform delivers a single portal solution for standardizing application management across various applications and hosting environments. It's built from many familiar open source projects, each working in concert on Kubernetes clusters to provide vital container management services.

## Complete Application Life Cycle Management

Verrazzano understands that application management is a continuous and dynamic process. As an application moves through its life cycle, its needs can vary significantly and its management system must adapt accordingly.

Verrazzano supports an application through all phases of its life cycle, promoting communication across teams and departments. Developers can work with operations managers to quickly identify and address issues and then implement new strategies.

For a list of the tools that make up Verrazzano and what they do, see [Installed Components]({{< relref "/docs/setup/prereqs#installed-components" >}}).

## Consistent Management Environment

The flexibility of Verrazzano ensures that you can deploy both cloud native and traditional applications in on-premises, multicloud, and hybrid environments and manage them all using the same tools. When you don't need to alternate between different platforms, you can devote more energy to the management and improvement of applications. 

Verrazzano can even accelerate your approach to modernizing your traditional applications. While cloud native technologies offer many advantages, the labor requirements necessary to convert your existing applications can be intimidating. Verrazzano presents a bridge between the two: developers can immediately start building new applications cloud natively, while simultaneously maintaining and converting their existing traditional applications on a timeline that makes sense, all within the same platform.

## Dependable Infrastructure Management

Verrazzano also recognizes that the direct management of applications is only part of what makes up a useful container management platform: to consistently provide a stable and reliable service, you need to start with a healthy foundation. The infrastructure supporting your applications must be equally well supported.

Verrazzano tracks and receives valuable and timely information on the state of your clusters to ensure they're operating optimally.

Verrazzano also supports both single and multicluster Kubernertes environments. 

For more information on how Verrazzano works in a multicluster environment, see [Multicluster]({{< relref "/docs/applications/multicluster/_index.md" >}}).

## Comprehensive Monitoring

Strategic planning requires accurate information. Verrazzano includes a variety of logging, monitoring, and tracing tools so you can make intelligent decisions based on the comprehensive data generated by your application and its environment. Many of the components in this observability stack offer significant automated functionality which means Verrazzano alerts you to problems before you know to look for them.

For more information on the available observability options, see [Logging and Monitoring]({{< relref "/docs/monitoring/_index.md" >}}).

## Integrated Security

Verrazzano protects your applications and other resources with a robust set of security-focused components. It takes advantage of Kubernetes Role-Based Access Control to authorize only the right users to the right resources. Verrazzano also employs Keycloak to streamline user management and implement Single Sign On services.

Furthermore, a single and cohesive platform can reduce potential security gaps that often arise when working across unrelated software components. Verrazzano seals potential breaches between its individual components to minimize any compatibility issues and ensure each component remains on a supported and secure version.

For more information on how Verrazzano protects your applications, see [Security]({{< relref "/docs/security/_index.md" >}}).