---
title: "Components"
weight: 11
description: "Components associated with an application deployed in Verrazzano"
draft: true
---

An application can be composed of several components. To access components associated with an **Application** deployed in verrazzano :
1. From the **Home Page**, select **Applications** under Resources navigation section.
1. Click on the link present against Name column on the application card. The application details page will open up in a separate window.
1. Select **Components** from the **Resources** navigation section. 
1. Components are displayed as a list of cards with each component card containing:
   - Name: Name of the component.
   - Status: Status of the component. This value will be one of Running, Pending or Terminated.
   - Create On: Timestamp when this component instance was created.
   - OAM Component Ref: A link to original **OAM Component** from which this instance is created.
   - Workload: Link to see **Workload** generated by this component.
1. Each component card also contains links to **Traits**, **Scopes** and **Parameters** associated with the component. When one of these links is selected, **Traits**, **Scopes** and **Parameters** also appear as navigation items under the **Resources** section and the **Application Details** tab area is replaced with Component Details for the Component being selected.

Pagination controls are present on top and bottom of the list of component cards. The list also supports sorting based on Name and Status of the Components. The filter controls below Resources navigation can be used to filter the list of card based on Status of the Component.